feat(secrets): document secrets management (#1385)
spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io: reference/halyard/secrets/index.md

---
layout: single
title:  "Secrets"
sidebar:
  nav: reference
---

{% include toc %}

> Managing Spinnaker secrets separately from its configuration is a necessary step to enabling Spinnaker through an SCM like git. Spinnaker supports end-to-end secrets management, starting in version 1.14. Simply replace secrets in the Halconfig and service profiles with the syntax described here and Spinnaker will decrypt them as needed. 

Reviewer: Not sure what you're saying with this first sentence here. Is it something like "It's a bad security practice to store your secrets in your source code repository"?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, maybe something like storing secrets in plain text in a git repository is a bad idea?

Author: Yeah, I was having trouble with that sentence. I'm trying to mention how this enables history/versioning of configs without having to store plain text secrets in git. Something like:

"Storing Spinnaker configs in a git repository is a great solution for maintaining versions of your configurations, but storing secrets in plain text is a bad security practice. As of version 1.14, Spinnaker supports separating your secrets from your configs through end-to-end secrets management."  ?

Reviewer: Yeah, that's it right there. :+1:

> Managing Spinnaker secrets separately from its configuration is a necessary step to enabling Spinnaker through an SCM like git. Spinnaker supports end-to-end secrets management, starting in version 1.14. Simply replace secrets in the Halconfig and service profiles with the syntax described here and Spinnaker will decrypt them as needed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Managing Spinnaker secrets separately from its configuration is a necessary step to enabling Spinnaker through an SCM like git. As of version 1.14, Spinnaker supports end-to-end secrets management. Simply replace secrets in the Halconfig and service profiles with the syntax described here, and Spinnaker will decrypt them as needed. 
```

> ### Secret Format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Secret Format
```

> When referencing secrets in configs, we use the following general format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reference secrets in configs, use the following general format:
```

```
encrypted:<secret engine>!<key1>:<value1>!<key2>:<value2>!...
```
The key-value parameters making up the string vary with each secret engine. Refer to the specific documentation for each engine for more information.

> ### In Halyard

Reviewer: @KathrynLewis 
Are there `hal` commands to do this? This section shows the relevant stuff in hal config, but I think it'd be better if we showed commands for setting it.

Reviewer 2: Yeah might be worth showing examples of the difference in the`hal` commands i.e. instead of setting the value as the plain text secret, you set it with the encrypted syntax.

Author: Unfortunately `hal` commands don't really work. It can't handle the `!` in the syntax if it's all in one command. It does work for commands where it prompts you for the secret after entering the command. 

Fails:   `$ hal config storage s3 edit --secret-access-key encrypted:s3!r:us-west-2!b:mybucket!k:key`
Works: `$ hal config storage s3 edit --secret-access-key`
`Your AWS Secret Key.:` (enter `encrypted:vault!r:us-west-2!b:mybucket!k:key` when prompted here)

Reviewer 2: Ahh! Might be worth pointing out in this docs then that using it via a hal command would not work :)

Author: Ok, will do!

> ### In Halyard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## In Halyard
```

> Halyard knows how to decrypt the secrets we provide and will do so when the secret is needed, such as for validation and deployment. If the service we're deploying is able to decrypt secrets, Halyard will keep the secret in encrypted form when printing the service profiles. However if running an older version of a service, it will decrypt the configuration before sending it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Halyard decrypts your secrets as needed, for example for validation and deployment. If the service you're deploying can decrypt secrets, Halyard keeps the secret in encrypted form when printing the service profiles. However if you're running an older version of a service, it decrypts the configuration before sending it. 
```

> For instance, if we replace the GitHub token in our hal config with an encrypted syntax:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, if you replace the GitHub token in your hal config with an encrypted syntax:
```

```yaml
...
  github:
    enabled: true
    accounts:
    - name: github
      token: encrypted:<secret engine>!<key1>:<value1>!<key2>:<value2>!...
...
```

> We'd find it still encrypted in `profiles/clouddriver.yml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'd find it still encrypted in `profiles/clouddriver.yml`:
```

```yaml
...
  github:
    enabled: true
    accounts:
    - name: github
      token: encrypted:<secret engine>!<key1>:<value1>!<key2>:<value2>!...
...
```

And for an older release of Clouddriver that does not support decryption, the secret will be in plain text:
```yaml
...
  github:
    enabled: true
    accounts:
    - name: github
      token: <TOKEN>
...
```

> ### Non Halyard Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Non-Halyard Configuration
```

> ### Non Halyard Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Non Halyard Configuration
```

> We can also provide the same syntax in `*-local.yml` profile files or directly to Spinnaker services, since the services can also decrypt secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also provide the same syntax in `*-local.yml` profile files or directly to Spinnaker services, since the services can also decrypt secrets.
```

> ### Supported Secret Engines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Supported Secret Engines
```

For instance, if you replace the GitHub token in your hal config with an encrypted syntax:
```yaml
...
  github:
    enabled: true
    accounts:
    - name: github
      token: encrypted:<secret engine>!<key1>:<value1>!<key2>:<value2>!...
...
```

You'd find it still encrypted in `profiles/clouddriver.yml`:
```yaml
...
  github:
    enabled: true
    accounts:
    - name: github
      token: encrypted:<secret engine>!<key1>:<value1>!<key2>:<value2>!...
...
```

And for an older release of Clouddriver that does not support decryption, the secret will be in plain text:
```yaml
...
  github:
    enabled: true
    accounts:
    - name: github
      token: <TOKEN>
...
```
Note: Using the encrypted syntax in a `hal` command will not work, so you'll need to edit the hal config directly.

## Non-Halyard Configuration
You can also provide the same syntax in `*-local.yml` profile files or directly to Spinnaker services, since the services can also decrypt secrets.

## Supported Secret Engines

> The secrets framework is extensible and support for new engines can easily be added. Currently the following are supported:

Reviewer: s/are/is/
...because it looks like only one (s3) is supported.
